The President: Hi, everybody.
It's hard to believe, but
it was seven years ago this
week that one of Wall
Street's biggest investment
banks went bankrupt,
triggering a meltdown on
Wall Street and the worst
economic crisis since the
Great Depression.
And in the months that
followed, millions of
Americans lost their jobs,
their homes, and the savings
they'd worked so
hard to build.
Today's a different story.
Over the past five and a
half years, our businesses
have created more than
13 million new jobs.
The unemployment rate is
lower than it's been in over
seven years.
Manufacturing is growing.
Housing is bouncing back.
We've reduced our
deficits by two-thirds.
And 16 million more
Americans now know the
security of
health insurance.
This is your progress.
It's because of your hard
work and sacrifice that
America has come back from
crisis faster than almost
every other advanced
nation on Earth.
We remain the safest,
strongest bet in the world.
Of course, you might not
know all that if you only
listened to the bluster of
political season, when it's
in the interest of some
politicians to paint America
as dark and depressing
as possible.
But I don't see it that way.
I've met too many Americans
who prove, day in and day
out, that this is a place
where anything is possible.
Yes, we have a lot of work
to do to rebuild a middle
class that's had the odds
stacked against it now
for decades.
That's the thing about
America - our work is
never finished.
We always strive to be
better - to perfect ourselves.
We just have to make
the right choices.
And if Republicans want to
help, they can choose, right
now, to pass a budget that
helps us grow our economy
even faster, create jobs
even faster, lift people's
incomes and prospects
even faster.
But they've only got until
the end of the month to do
it - or they'll shut down
our government for the
second time in two years.
Democrats are ready to sit
down and negotiate with
Republicans right now.
But it should be over
legitimate issues like how
much do we invest in
education, job training, and
infrastructure - not
unrelated ideological issues
like Planned Parenthood.
We need to set our
sights higher than that.
We need to reverse harmful
cuts to middle-class
economic priorities, close
loopholes that benefit only
a fortunate few at the top,
and invest more in the
things that help our
entire economy grow.
There's nothing principled
about the idea of another
government shutdown.
There's nothing patriotic
about denying the progress
you've worked
so hard to make.
America is great right
now - not because of our
government, or our wealth,
or our power, but because of
everyone who works hard
every day to move this
country forward.
Now Congress needs to
work as hard as you do.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.